Add capabilities/platform documentation (#3542)
meilisearch/documentation: capabilities/platform/infrastructure/manage_resources.mdx

General guidelines for choosing a tier:

| Situation | Guidance |
|-----------|----------|
| Index fits comfortably in RAM | Keep a tier where RAM exceeds your index size by at least 20% |
| High query volume (hundreds of QPS) | Choose a tier with more CPU cores |
| Large vector dimensions or many embedded documents | Prefer higher RAM tiers; vector indexes grow quickly |
| Development or staging environment | Use the smallest tier to minimize cost |

## When to scale up

Signs that your project needs more resources:

- Search latency (p95 or p99) increases during peak traffic
- Indexing tasks take significantly longer than usual
- Memory usage stays near 100% in the [usage metrics dashboard](/capabilities/platform/monitoring/usage_metrics)
- CPU usage is consistently high during search-heavy periods

## Changing the plan

1. Open your project in the Meilisearch Cloud dashboard.
2. Go to **Infrastructure** and find the **Manage resources** button.
3. Click on the dropdown to see all available options.

<Frame>

>   <img src="/assets/images/platform/infrastructure/resource_settings.png" alt="Meilisearch Cloud project resource settings panel" />

Reviewer: Looks like this image is missing

Author: Consolidated the two resource screenshots into a single image per your other comment, so this one was removed. The remaining screenshot (`manage_resources.png`) still needs to be committed before it renders, so leaving this open until the file is added.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Author: Update: the missing images are resolved — consolidated to one image and committed `manage_resources.png` (from your attachment).

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

</Frame>

4. Select the desired tier from the plan picker.

<Frame>

>   <img src="/assets/images/platform/infrastructure/plan_selection.png" alt="Meilisearch Cloud plan selection UI showing available resource tiers" />

Reviewer: Same here, but I am not sure if we even need to images, I think we can just reduce it to one like this:

<img width="1308" height="679" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0ab53d26-2dc5-4159-94ad-51d17f5789e0" />

Author: Done: reduced to a single image (`manage_resources.png`) showing the instance-size dialog, and reworded step 4 to describe picking a size with its RAM/vCPU/price. The PNG itself still needs to be committed, so leaving this open until the file lands.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Author: Update: pulled your attached screenshot from the comment and committed it as `manage_resources.png`, so the single image now renders. Reduced to one image as suggested.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

---
title: Manage resources
description: Scale your Meilisearch Cloud project's CPU and RAM up or down from the project settings.
---

{/* Screenshots needed on this page:
  1. The resource settings panel in project settings (current plan, available tiers)
  2. The plan selection UI showing available tiers with CPU/RAM/price
*/}

<Info>
  Resource management applies to **resource-based projects** only. Usage-based projects scale automatically and do not have a configurable resource tier. If you are on a usage-based plan and want more control over your infrastructure, you can migrate to a resource-based project at any time by creating a new resource-based project and re-indexing your data.
</Info>

> You can change a project's resource tier at any time from the Meilisearch Cloud project settings. Scaling up increases available CPU and RAM, scaling down reduces costs.

Reviewer: It's not possible to scale down via the dashboard. Should we remove this? or add a section to explain they need to contact support?

Author: Clarified: scaling up is via the dashboard; scaling down now directs users to contact support@.

## Resource tiers

Each tier defines the CPU, RAM, and storage available to your project. The exact tiers and their prices are shown in the Cloud UI and on the [Meilisearch pricing page](https://www.meilisearch.com/pricing).

General guidelines for choosing a tier:

| Situation | Guidance |
|-----------|----------|
| Index fits comfortably in RAM | Keep a tier where RAM exceeds your index size by at least 20% |
| High query volume (hundreds of QPS) | Choose a tier with more CPU cores |
| Large vector dimensions or many embedded documents | Prefer higher RAM tiers; vector indexes grow quickly |
| Development or staging environment | Use the smallest tier to minimize cost |

## When to scale up

Signs that your project needs more resources:

- Search latency (p95 or p99) increases during peak traffic
- Indexing tasks take significantly longer than usual
- Memory usage stays near 100% in the [usage metrics dashboard](/capabilities/platform/monitoring/usage_metrics)
- CPU usage is consistently high during search-heavy periods

## Changing the plan

1. Open your project in the Meilisearch Cloud dashboard.

> 2. Go to **Settings** and find the **Resource plan** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Infrastructure** and find the **Manage resources** button.
```

Author: Applied the suggestion.

> 3. Click **Change plan**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the dropdown to see all available options.
```

Author: Applied the suggestion.

<Warning>
  **Screenshot needed:** Replace this placeholder with a screenshot of the resource settings panel showing the current plan and a "Change plan" button before publishing.
</Warning>

<Frame>

>   <img src="/images/platform/infrastructure/resource_settings.png" alt="Meilisearch Cloud project resource settings panel" />

Author: Fixed: added the /assets prefix to both image paths.
